Pretoria - Government has welcomed the Swellendam Circuit Court’s double-life sentencing of Johannes Kana, who was found guilty of the murder and rape of Bredasdorp teenager, Anene Booysen, early this year. On Tuesday, Judge Patricia Goliath found Kana guilty of raping and murdering Booysen in February this year. Booysen was raped and disembowelled and left to to die at a housing construction site. She later died at Tygerberg Hospital, Cape Town. Acting Government Communication and Information System (GCIS) CEO, Phumla Williams, said: “We commend the law enforcement agencies and the justice system for rapidly turning the wheels of justice. “This sentencing clearly demonstrates that government will not tolerate such vile criminal acts and remains committed to ensuring that all South Africans feel and are safe”. She said South Africans must reflect on the real impact of gender-based violence. These include direct costs relating to health care, judicial, social and other related services. Gender-based violence also deprives women and children of the opportunity to become productive citizens of the country. “Government calls on all citizens to jointly take responsibility and action to protect our children, and bring back the values of respect for human dignity, which is one of the bases of our democracy,” said Williams. Police Minister Nathi Mthethwa has also added his voice in welcoming the sentence and congratulated the police on their good investigative work. “The sentencing was as a result of an integrated approach by the different units within the criminal justice system. We want to in particular single out the good investigative work done by the South African Police Service’s Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences detection unit,” said the minister. He said these types of crimes were indicative of the types of social challenges facing South Africa’s youth, particularly because both the perpetrator and the victim were young people who should have been focusing on their future development. “What this case further highlighted was a point we have been making that almost 72 percent of sexual offences happen amongst acquaintances, which becomes difficult for police to police such crimes, hence our call around strengthening the partnership between police and communities. “From our side as government we reiterate that those who commit such inhumane crimes will be detected, prosecuted and sentenced to lengthy terms of imprisonments,” said Mthethwa. – SAnews.gov.za 