By Neville Maakana Tzaneen - All adults who live with children who are not their own should be registered, says Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini. She was speaking at a ceremony to mark the end of Child Protection Week in Lephepane village near Tzaneen in Limpopo on Sunday afternoon. “We have people who take care of orphaned children in their homes and in churches, but who are not registered as child-caring institutions. This makes it difficult to intervene when these children are abused,” she said. The minister was accompanied by Deputy Minister of Social Development Maria Ntuli, Deputy Minister of Police Maggie Sotyu, Deputy Minister of Women, Children and People with Disabilities Hendrietta Bogopane-Zulu and Limpopo Premier Cassel Mathale. The event was attended by thousands of caregivers, parents and school children who rendered dance, choral music, poetry and drama performances. In her address, the minister urged parents to help government to make homes, schools, churches and playgrounds safer places for children. “You have a responsibility to make your homes, local schools, churches and playgrounds safer places for your children. You have the responsibility to cut down bushes where criminals hide,” she said, adding that it was important for children to know their rights and what to do when those rights are infringed. “You must report adults who demand sex from you. Tell the police, a social worker or nurse at the clinic. Even when you still don’t get help, call the Presidential Hotline,” she said. Dlamini said women had the right to wear mini-skirts without fear of being raped. She also complained about the high number of taverns in the area. Grade 12 pupil Magdalene Bvuma said poverty and lack of education were some of the reasons behind child abuse. “Most of the adults who abuse children are school dropouts. We also have parents who pressurise their daughters to sleep with older men because the family desperately needs money to buy groceries,” she said. The event ended with the signing of a pledge by the minister and dignitaries, in which they committed to protect and uphold the rights of women, children and people living with disabilities. Child Protection Week, which started on May 27, is commemorated in the country annually to raise awareness of the rights of children as articulated in the Children's Act of 2005. The campaign that began in 1997 also aims to mobilise all sectors of society and communities in the effort of ensuring care and protection for children. – SAnews.gov.za