Pretoria - South African Airways (SAA) and Brazilian carrier TAM Airlines on Thursday announced the implementation of a code share agreement. The code share will see national carrier SAA place its designator code “SA” on flights operated by TAM Airlines, which is one of the largest carriers in South America. The code “SA” will be placed on flights operated by TAM from Sao Paulo to Rio de Janeiro, Porto Alegre, Curitiba, Brasília, Salvador, Florianopolis, Iguaçu Falls, Recife, Belo Horizonte. Likewise, TAM will place its designator code “JJ” on flights operated by SAA between Sao Paulo and Johannesburg, and to other cities within South Africa, namely, Cape Town, Durban, East London and Port Elizabeth. To date, SAA currently has 11 flights per week between Johannesburg and Sao Paulo. “Alliances and partnerships of this nature form a crucial part of modern airline management, which is about providing convenient connection for customers to as many destinations as possible without necessarily using your own resources. “Moreover, this code share provides a platform to tap into the potential that lies in both carriers’ respective markets in a manner that would significantly enhance benefits for passengers of both airlines,” SAA’s acting General Manager: Commercial, Manoj Papa, said. The collaboration by the two airlines will not only offer leisure travellers a bouquet of holiday options, but also access to multiple business centres. Soledad Berrios, LATAM Airlines Group Senior Vice President: Strategic Alliances, said: "We are seeking partnerships like this to offer our customers flights to all over the world. Together with South African Airways, we will make travelling between Brazil and South Africa easier, and the countries will be the gateway of the South American and African continents.” Customers who are members of SAA’s loyalty programme, Voyager, will continue to earn miles and obtain tier status when travelling on TAM flights. Likewise, members of the TAM Fidelidade programme will also continue to earn and redeem points when they travel on SAA flights. Tickets went on sale today, with travel set to commence on Monday. - SAnews.gov.za