Potchesftroom - North West MEC for Transport, Roads and Community Safety, Phenye Vilakazi, has awarded medals and certificates to 128 police officers in recognition of their outstanding performance. "We are gathered here today to celebrate the outstanding work of men and women who have served our community with pride and hard work. "We want them to see that we really appreciate what they do for the communities and also to encourage them to continue with all the excellent work that they have done in the past," MEC Vilakazi said at the National Police Day celebrations on Tuesday. The medals and certificates were awarded to officers, who have served the police force in the province for more than 10, 20 and 30 years with good faith. Out of 128 members of the police service who received medals and certificates, 35 of them received monetary awards amounting to R10 000 for their outstanding performance. MEC Vilakazi said members of the police service who received monetary awards had done outstanding work in arresting criminals for among other things being in possession of illegal firearms, robbery and theft. During last year's festive season, the SAPS in the North West arrested 8 580 suspects for various crimes through Operation Festive Season. MEC Vilakazi said the police officials who received monetary awards also performed well during the past festive season to reduce crime in communities. In congratulating them, MEC Vilakazi said: "Our SAPS have registered a great success in the fight against serious and violent crime since last year. "We have seen it as important to give those who have done outstanding work in making sure that criminals are arrested and create a safe environment for members of the community." MEC Vilakazi highlighted that they had maximised their crime-fighting efforts by strengthening partnerships with other law enforcement agencies such as those in security companies, communities, businesses and other non governmental organisations. He urged members of the communities to improve their relationship with police officials. "It is important that communities work with the police to fight crime in their own communities and stop taking them as their enemies. "We must make sure that we work together with our police with organs such as Community Policing Forum, to root our all the criminal in our communities. "As we celebrate the national police day today, we are calling for community members to work hand in hand with our police to achieve fruitful results in our Endeavour to fight crime," he said