Pretoria - President Jacob Zuma's inauguration celebrations closed with a sizzling cultural event on Saturday where hundreds of guests gathered at Monte Casino in Johannesburg to rejoice this historic day. The red-carpet Presidential Inauguration Cultural Evening saw Members of Parliament, dignitaries, Cabinet ministers, provincial premiers, celebrities and business persons gathered in one venue to enjoy the country's indigenous music and performance. As it was anticipated, this glamorous event became a fashion show with invited guests wearing labels from Sun Goddess, Giorgio Armani, Dolce and Gabbana to local designer labels. The best dressed couple of the night had to be Minister in the Presidency, Manto Tshabalala-Msimang and her husband Mendi Msimango, who waltzed into the ballroom in chic style, as guests were nursed with drinks and appetizers. Minister Tshabalala-Msimang looked stunning in a blue and grey dress and her stylish husband was dressed in grey-suit with grey tie and jersey to protect against the stinging Joburg chill. Spotted at the glittering event was Director-General in the Office of the President, Frank Chikane and his wife who both donned grey and black outfits. President Jacob Zuma arrived with his three wives Sizakele "MaKhumalo" Zuma, Nompumelelo "MaNtuli" Zuma and Thobeka Mabhija, who were seated at the upper deck of Theatre along with special guests who included Minister of Finance, Trevor Manuel. President Zuma did not address the guests during the night, however (former) Minister of Housing Lindiwe Sisulu who looked stunning in black as the Programme Director expressed gratitude to the guests on behalf of the president. Other members of parliament who attended the event were (former) Minister of Transport Jeff Radebe, Minister of Education Naledi Pandor and Deputy Minister of Finance, Nhlanhla Nene. Among the guests attending the event were KwaZulu-Natal Premier Zweli Mkhize and Eastern Cape newly elected Premier Noxolo Kiviet who enjoyed the music of Lira, Jonas Gwangwa, Oliver Mthukudzi, Ihhashi Elimhlophe and the sizzling performance of African Footprint. Earlier on in the day President Zuma took the oath of office as President of South Africa and was officially inaugurated as the fourth democratically elected president at the Union Building in Pretoria. Thousands of ordinary South Africans were among the 5000 guests who attended the ceremony including 29 Heads of State and Government. After the event, people were kept entertained with music of hip hopper Pro Kid, Gang of Instrument and other artists who performed for approximately 40 000 people at the Union Building's southern lawns