Pretoria - South Africa joins the rest of the world today in commemorating the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. By resolution 42/112 of 7 December 1987, the General Assembly decided to observe 26 June as the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. The day aims to strengthen action and cooperation to achieve the goal of an international society free of drug abuse. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime leads the international campaign with the aim of raising awareness about the major problem that arises in society due to illicit drugs and especially to young people. The theme for this year's campaign, which coincides with Drug Awareness Week is 'Drug Control', aims to inspire people and mobilise support for the curbing of the supply of drugs in communities. The slogan for the day is 'Do drugs control your life? Your life! Your community! No place for drugs'. South Africans will gather at Schoonoord in the Sekhukhune District in Limpopo to commemorate the day. Minister of Social Development, Edna Molewa and Limpopo MEC for Department of Health and Social Development, Miriam Segabutla will address the crowds and outline government's response to the growing phenomenon of substance abuse and illicit trafficking. Other government departments to participate during the event will include Education, Health, Sports and Recreation as well as the local municipality. In Gauteng, MEC for Department of Health and Social Development Qedani Mahlangu will mark the day by educating the youth about the dangers of drugs and alcohol abuse during an event to take place at Sam Ntuli stadium in Thokoza, Ekurhuleni. The event will be used to serve as a platform to raise awareness for communities, especially the youth in Ekurhuleni about the ill effects of drug and alcohol abuse. The City of Cape Town will use the day to announce its Policy Position Statement on Illicit Drugs at an event to be held at Klipfontein Primary School in Bonteheuwel. The city will seek to strategically address drug related problems through the development of the city's Alcohol and Drug Operational Plan 2007 - 2010. The Operational Plan will define the role of the city and will provide direction for alcohol and drug related programmes and policies.