Bloemfontein - Parents in the Free State whose children qualify to receive free school uniforms from the provincial government have until 23 March to apply for them. The Free State Department of Social Development in partnership with the South African Social Security Agency have allocated R34.5 million for a Social Relief of Distress (SRD) programme, which started in December 2008. "We urge parents to come forward before the cut off date, which is 23 March 2009," Department spokesperson Mlungisi Tyobeka told BuaNews. Mr Tyobeka cautioned that the applicants will firstly be assessed by social workers to determine whether they qualified for the SRD. "Parents are also requested to bring along their Identity Documents and the birth certificates of the children they are applying for as well as the correct sizes of shirts, pants, skirts, jerseys, underwear, shoes and socks." Mr Tyobeka said only parents applying for the first time were expected to come forward and not those who applied during December 2008 as their names were already captured in the department's database. "It is our hope and trust that this call will be heeded to as the department urgently needs to complete this project while ensuring that the people receive the services that are provided by government," Mr Tyobeka said. The processing of the applications started on Tuesday at Thaba Phatswa, Bodibeng ba Thuto and Atalanta Farm and moved to Thaba Phatswa Hall on Wednesday, where SASSA officials were helping recipients to apply. The registrations will also continue at other venues - on 12 February at Excelsior Mahlatswetsa Hall, 13 February at Marseilles Farms, 16 February at Hobhouse Hall, 17 February at Tweespruit Boroa Hall and 18 February at Thaba Nchu Botshelo Hall. On 19 February, applications will be taken at the Thaba Nchu Botshelo Hall, Ladybrand Manyatseng Municipal Offices and the Westminister Jutterworth Farm. On 20 February, parents are advised to go to the Jevington Farm in Ladybrand Manyatseng Municipal Offices.