Kimberley - Northern Cape Premier Hazel Jenkins announced her new provincial executive committee on Monday. Ms Jenkins was sworn in as Premier during a ceremony at the provincial legislature in Kimberley. John Block was announced as MEC for Finance, Economic Affairs and Tourism; Grizelda Cjikela was named the new MEC for Education and the Department of Health will be led by Mxolisi Sokatsha. Norman Shushu was announced as MEC for Agriculture, Land Reform and Rural Development; Kenny Mmoiemang was announced as MEC for the new Cooperative Governance, Human Settlement and Traditional Affairs Department; Dawid Rooi is MEC for Roads and Public Works; Sylvia Lucas was announced as MEC for Environment and Nature Conservation; Alvin Botes was announced as MEC for Social Services and Population; Pauline Williams MEC for Sport, Arts and Culture and Patrick Mabilo will lead the Department of Transport, Safety and Culture. In her first official address as Premier, Ms Jenkins promised to act in the best interests of all the people of the Northern Cape Province. She said her priorities would include improving the conditions of the poor, creating a shared prosperity and strengthening state institutions and departments in order to enhance service delivery. "Tangible effort must and will be accorded to promoting social justice, fundamental human rights, gender equality and the values of human dignity, equality and freedom." Mr Jenkins said she envisaged a modernised province, confident of its future. "We have a clear and achievable plan over the next five years to further improve the quality of life of our people. "Our programme focuses on employment creation in a growing economy, health, education, rural development and land reform as well as fighting crime. This plan will only produce the desired results if all South Africans get involved in implementing it." She said during the current global economic downturn, the province would explore creative ways to continue to stimulate the economy, create unique opportunities and attract investment. "To this end, we must maximise our agricultural production, strengthen our tourist appeal, improve our hospitality sector, further explore our mineral-rich landscape and creatively diversify and increase our manufacturing capacity. "It is now opportune for us as a province, to take advantage of our country's integration into the global economy, to enhance our economic output so that the degradation of poverty becomes a thing of the past for the majority of our communities," said Ms Jenkins. She said she would elaborate on her strategies to overcome the many socio-economic challenges in the province on 12 June, in her State of the Province Address. Ms Jenkins took over as Premier from Dipuo Peters, who has been appointed Minister of Energy in the new government.