Mafikeng - The Royal Bafokeng stadium in Rustenburg, which is to host matches for the 2009 FIFA Confederations Cup and 2010 FIFA World Cup, is expected to be completed next month. According to the Managing Director of the Bafokeng Royal Sports Holdings, George Khunou, the stadium is 90 percent complete with the rest of the work to be completed in mid February this year. "We have done a lot of hard work in preparation of the two main soccer events that will be taking place in our stadium. "We were expecting that the stadium will be through in March but because of the hard work that has been taking place the stadium will be completed sooner than we expected," Mr Khunou told BuaNews on Wednesday. Mr Khunou reiterated that the stadium will be available for use next month and will be used to host two international friendly games prior to the Confederation's Cup. "We have two international friendly games prior to the Confederations Cup which has inspired us to move with speed to complete the work," he said, adding that the games would be used as a test run for the main events. "A lot of work has already being done in the stadium, the pitch is green and ready for use, most of the seats are being put in and we are still working on the roof and other small aspects in the stadium which we expect to complete soon. "We are more than confident that the stadium will be completed and ready to use by next month with little work to be done," Mr Khunou explained. The upgrading of the stadium, he said, has cost about R360 million with National Treasury contributing R147 million, the Bafokeng Royal Sports Holdings contributing R170 million and the Rustenburg Local Municipality making up the rest of the amount. The current seating capacity of the stadium is 39 000 but they have planned to increase it to 43 000. Mr Khunou further reiterated that they were working in partnership with government and other private companies especially with Rustenburg Local Municipality to ensure that they are well prepared for the two big international soccer games.