Johannesburg - National Police Week, which was launched on Monday by the South African Police Service (SAPS) in Gauteng, will be used as a key venture to combat crime in the province. Addressing hundreds of police officers, community representatives and business members, Gauteng Police Commissioner Perumal Naidoo said the week-long programme would include various activities across the province which aimed to swiftly decrease crime. "This day marks the excellent work done by our members in fighting against crime and also remembering our fallen heroes who were executed while they were on duty. "Even though we have achieved a lot, we still have challenges and we call upon community members to work closely with police officers and other stakeholders to ensure safety and security in their respective areas," he said. The commissioner also encouraged police officers to be accountable to members of the communities and work accordingly to make life difficult for criminals. Commissioner Naidoo requested officers to prevent corruption at their respective stations as this was one of the problems affecting the institution's service delivery. Meanwhile, the Johannesburg Central Cluster established by eight of the city's police stations, including the Booysen, Brixton, Fairland, Johannesburg Central, Langlaagte, Mondeor and Sophiatown stations have also launched its innovative Project Stay Alert. Cluster Commander, Assistant Commissioner Simon Mpembe, said the focus of the project was to make victims of business and house break-ins aware of crimes in their communities. "The project will assist the victims on how they can help and share information with police and ensure their readiness to testify in court. "Most importantly the project will also provide tips of how to keep safe and to be steps ahead of criminals," he said. The project will, in addition, establish and strengthen partnerships and create communication channels between the SAPS, other law enforcement agencies, business and community. Speaking at the event, the Chief Executive Officer of Business Against Crime, Dr Gram Wright said the organisation was keen to work with the SAPS and community members in the fight against crime. He said there was no choice but to stand together and fight criminals who have been threatening the lives of South Africans. National Police Day will be celebrated next Tuesday which will reflect on the successes and achievements of the SAPS and reinforce the nation's confidence in the future of safety and security in South Africa. The celebrations will show appreciation for the outstanding and loyal performance by police officials and civilian members of the SAPS and pay tribute to those members who sacrificed their lives for the sake of safety and security for all.