Rustenburg - Police are leaving nothing to chance ahead of tonight's match between Bafana Bafana and New Zealand at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium in Rustenburg. Speaking to BuaNews earlier today, Senior Superintendent Kebaakae Metsi, said more than 1 000 police officers are being deployed at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium while emergency personnel and traffic officers will also be on standby. "We have been deployed under the provincial joint operation centre which includes everyone in the security cluster, namely intelligence, home affairs and the fire department. "The reason for this is that in government, we complement each other. If for instance, we arrest an illegal foreigner in the stadium, we have to bring in home affairs as well as other departments," said Superintendent Metsi. She said from the police side, detectives, crime intelligence, crime prevention and reservists have been deployed in all strategic areas around the stadium. These include the parking area, players' pavilion, inside the stadium, park and ride and park and walk areas. Earlier, police decked in their blue uniforms, held their routine parade, much to the delight of the locals and photographers. Superintendent Metsi said debriefing meetings were held after each match to assess what more could be done to beef up security. "With regards to tonight's match we are confident, everything will go smooth," she said, adding that successful dry-runs were done in the previous matches. "We are ready for anything and we are determined, the commitment shown by our reservists is amazing," said Superintendent Metsi. Police Minister Nathi Mthethwa also visited several venues last week where the Confederations Cup matches would be taking place. Government and the Local Organising Committee has also assured the world that the first Confederations Cup to be held on African soil will be secure and incident free. "We would like to assure the world that all has been done to ensure the safety of all our visitors and locals," said LOC Chief Executive Officer Danny Jordaan ahead of the games.