Hammanskraal - The Public Service Week (PSW), launched on Monday, will be used as a fundamental instrument to facilitate access to services by the general public. Speaking at the launch in Hammanskraal, Department of Public Service and Administration Director-General, Professor Richard Levin, said this week aims to get senior managers out of their offices and into the community. "We are here to wake up the public service. The fire that wakes us up is the election manifesto of the ruling party. It is up to us as public servants to translate the manifesto into implementable policy. "PSW is one of those events where we need to reflect on the mandate that we need to carry, a mandate that is described in the manifesto," he said. He emphasised that people need to benefit and be able to access the benefits of the public service, adding that government need to ensure that it has the necessary skills to deliver these services. "In this week, we need to make sure that senior managers are able to go to deliver services through the Khaedu project," he said. Under the theme 'Delivery of Quality Service for Sustainable Development', the PSW is an integral part of the ongoing Batho Pele Revitalisation strategy. This strategy aims at rebuilding and instilling good ethics, morale and pride in public servants' endeavours to translate the people's contract into reality through the provision of quality services Meanwhile, the North West Government has joined hands with the national government to coordinate the PSW initiative. As part of celebrations, the provincial government has handed over a Tele-Centre to the community of Makwassie, which will assist in bringing technology within reach of this community. The provincial government will on Wednesday stage a mini jamboree at the Dr Segomotsi Ruth Mompati, at Bray, in an endeavor to stretch the coverage of the PSW to other districts. The service delivery jamboree is conceptualised to provide communities with the opportunity to access crucial government services. The project is underpinned by the principle of Batho Pele, grounded within a Human Rights perspective, and fortified by the principles of social capital. Through this project, provincial government departments are brought together to a central and easily accessible venue in the community, to render services to that community.