Johannesburg - The hard work and commitment of police officers at the Fairland Police Station is to benefit victims of crime in the area. In recognition of the sterling work done by police officers in arresting robbers, the police station has been rewarded with a new trauma unit. It all started when John Robbie, Talk Radio 702's breakfast show anchor - who lives in the area - witnessed members of the SAPS Dog Unit track down and arrest a gang of robbers. "I was impressed with the level of professionalism that was maintained throughout the entire operation. It made me incredibly proud to be a South African and it was quite an eye opener to witness firsthand the incredible work that the SAPS do," he said. Robbie nominated the police station for a project run insurance group, Glenrand MIB, that renovates police stations in recognition of the work done by police officers. The result was the official opening of the trauma unit at the Fairland Police Station on Wednesday. Two rooms in the existing outbuilding were modified and built to form a consultation room and a reception area for the trauma unit. Counselors will be on hand to help victims of crime. Comfort packs consisting of items such as clothes, toothpaste, soap and nappies will also be made available at the unit that even has beds in it. Gauteng Police Commissioner Lieutenant General Mzwandile Petros praised the police station, saying it was proof that is was not the size of the police station that mattered but the dedication of police officials. He also commended Fairland's Station Commander Lieutenant Colonel Reggie Moichela for his leadership and concern for the community. "The station commander could have asked that the renovations the police station received be in the form of air-conditioning but instead he chose to ask for a victim support centre," Petros said. He added that initiatives such as the one run by Glenrand MIB was indicative of the goodwill of the people of Gauteng and their determination in ridding the province of crime. It also showed that despite the problems that may exist within the SAPS, the public were willing to work with police. Fairland's Station Commander Lieutenant Colonel Reggie Moichela said the renovations could not have come at a better time as the station was in desperate need of a friendly victim support centre. He added that the unit would be used exclusively for victim support. "The trauma centre will provide Fairland SAPS the means to counsel victims of sexual crimes as well as abused women and children and victims of violent crimes," Moichela said. While he expressed his gratitude to the Glenrand MIB and the Northcliff Rotary, which also helped with the trauma unit, Moichela said the aim of his police station was to reduce crime so significantly that there would be no need for the unit. Adam Rakgalakane of Glenrand MIB said that police station renovation project was aimed at creating an environment where police officers could deliver services beyond the expectations of South Africans during a time of trauma and uncertainty.