Pietermaritzburg - The Department of Education in KwaZulu-Natal will conduct supplementary examinations for candidates who did not pass their matric exams from 17 February to 25 March. Candidates who qualify for the supplementary exam must register at their schools. Venues for the exams will be announced by districts at a later stage. "Application for supplementary examinations is now open at schools, candidates must get supplementary entry forms from their schools, they must register and leave entry forms at school," the department said. The entry forms will be forwarded to districts on or before 23 January 2009, which is the closing date for registration. Those matrics who have not met the minimum promotion and certification requirements for 2008 National Senior Certificate may write supplementary examinations in a maximum of two subjects. Candidates who were absent from one or more external examinations in October and November 2008 because they were medically unfit or due to a death in their immediate family or other special reasons may register for the supplementary examination in all subjects missed. However, documentary proof is required in such instances. Candidates who are able to provide evidence that they qualify for admission to higher education institutions or for an occupation but do not satisfy the higher education faculty requirements or for a specific occupation may also register for a maximum of two subjects to improve their results. Evidence will include documentary proof of faculty or occupation requirements, the department said. According to the department, in cases where an irregularity is being investigated, a candidate may be granted provisional enrolment for the supplementary examination for a maximum of two subjects pending the outcome of the investigation. The grade 12 year mark for 2008 will be used to satisfy the internal assessment requirements for all supplementary exam candidates. The department has advised all candidates who wish to repeat their entire Grade 12 National Senior Certificate that they will be able to write in October and November 2009. The province achieved a pass rate of 57.8 percent during 2008 matric exams. Out of 136 796 matriculants, who sat for the exams, a total of 79 068 candidates passed their examinations with a total of 18.4 percent achieved university endorsements.