Pretoria - Households considered to fall under the "indigent" category, have been urged to register so that they can receive basic services. They can do this with the help of their ward councillors. "The registration program aims at providing basic services to indigent households and the city would like to fast track and conclude this process so as to ensure that indigent households have access to basic services," says Tshwane Metropolitan Municipality mayoral committee member responsible for health and social development Sonto Thipe. According to Councillor Thipe, registration to be included in the indigent households list started in February 2008 and the target set was to have 90 000 households registered by end March 2009. "Marketing and media campaigns were carried out to raise awareness about the programme. To date there are 52 842 indigent households who are registered and are linked to the programme of basic municipal services," Councillor Thipe said. The qualifying households, with a joint monthly income of R1 700 or less, receive free 100 Kilowatts of electricity and 12 Kilolitres of water. Councillor Thipe said 17 000 indigent households from informal settlements have also been captured on their data base so that appropriate programs and interventions could be put in place to assist in improving their lives. "We urge the applicants who did not submit relevant documents and affidavits to make sure that they have them ready as from Wednesday when ward councillors and social workers will be visiting their houses to assist them. "Cooperation from households that have applied will assist, we will be able to fast-track the backlog and approval of those applications," Councillor Thipe said. The criteria to register to become an indigent household include: * If the total gross monthly income of all the members of the household does not exceed the joint pensions of two old age state pensioners less than R1 700 a month; * If the applicant as well as any other member of the household does not own other fixed property than the one on which they reside; * The person or applicant applying on behalf of a household must be 18 years of age and above; * The applicant applying on behalf of a household must reside at that property; * The applicant applying should be the owner of the property, and * The applicant must be a South African Citizen. Certified copies to accompany the application should include proof of income or a sworn affidavit if unemployed. A copy of the applicant's identity document, spouse and all dependants are also required. The latest municipal account, and where applicable the birth certificates of children and report cards or letters from school is also necessary. The applicant should also have proof of marital status such as a marriage certificate, divorce certificate or customary union/ living together and death certificate, where applicable