Parliament, 17 September 2009 - The Portfolio Committee on Communications today met and finalised the selection of 12 candidates for the new South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) Board. The 12 candidates recommended for the Board will be submitted to the National Assembly for approval. The candidates recommended for appointment are: 1. Mr Cedric Sabelo Gina2. Mr Desmond Khalid Golding3. Ms Philippa Mary Green 4. Mr Peter John Harris5. Ms Barbara Joyce Mosima Masekela6. Mr Magatho Anthony Mello7. Mr Nkomotane Clifford Motsepe8. Dr Baldwin Sipho (Ben) Ngubane9. Mr David Clephane Niddrie10. Ms Clare Frances O'Neil11. Ms Felleng Lorraine Sekha12. Ms Suzanne Christina Vos The Chairperson of the Committee, Ismail Vadi, said the process has seen more than the required number of outstanding candidates for the job and that it was really heartbreaking that the Committee could ultimately only select 12 candidates and drop the others. A total of 30 candidates, out of more than 200 nominations, have been interviewed for the Board. Mr Vadi said the decision of appointing a new Board had come after a long and exhaustive process of oversight of the SABC that began with the Parliamentary inquiry into the former Board in June this year. After the inquiry, the Board was dissolved, and an interim Board was appointed. The Chairperson said the recommended candidates collectively possess the requisite skills, expertise and competence to provide proper and effective leadership of the public broadcaster whose corporate image had been severely damaged in the last two years. The Committee wishes to sincerely thank all the individuals, including the candidates, and organisations that participated in the process. ` The Committee's report is to be tabled in the middle of October. Issued by the Parliamentary Communication Services on behalf of Ismail Vadi, Chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Communications For inquiries or interviews with the chairperson, please contact:Yoliswa Landu (Ms) Tel: 021 403 8203Cell: 073 738 0182 Email: ylandu@parliament.gov.za