Parliament -South Africa's new government will continue to prioritise the African continent by strengthening the African Union and its structures. Delivering his maiden State of the Nation address in Parliament on Wednesday, President Jacob Zuma committed that government will contribute to building a better Africa and a better world. "The main goal of government for the medium term is to ensure that our foreign relations contribute to the creation of an environment conducive to sustainable economic growth and development," he told a joint sitting of Parliament. Equally important, and closer to home, Mr Zuma said the strengthening of regional integration with particular emphasis on improving the political and economic integration of SADC, towards the AU goal of a Union government, will continue. "We will establish a South African Development Partnership Agency to promote developmental partnerships with other countries on the continent," said Mr Zuma who is currently the chairperson of the SADC region. As the Chairperson of SADC and Facilitator, he further said the country will participate in promoting an inclusive government in Zimbabwe until free and fair elections are held in that country. "The plight of the Zimbabwean people has had a negative impact on the SADC region, especially South Africa," he said, calling on the world to also support Zimbabwe. "We call upon all peace-loving countries in the world to support the inclusive government to achieve economic recovery," he said. On Madagascar, which has also dominated the agenda of SADC in recent months, he said South Africa will support efforts of the SADC region to resolve the situation. He went on to say that South Africa will continue to assist in the reconstruction and development of the African continent, especially in post-conflict situations. "We will continue to encourage a peaceful and sustainable settlement to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict based on the two-state solution," he said, adding that South Africa will also support the peace efforts of the African Union and the United Nations on the African continent, including in the Saharawi Arab Republic and Darfur in Sudan. "Through continental and regional bodies, we will work towards the entrenchment of democracy and the respect for human rights on the African continent." Mr Zuma also hinted that government will contribute to the strengthening of South-South relations and pursue mutually beneficial agreements with key countries of the South, while continuing to enhance relations with the developed North including the G8, the European Union and the conclusion of the WTO Doha Development round of negotiations.