Cabinet held its ordinary meeting in Pretoria, on 30 March 2011. 1. Decisions 1.1 The South African government is deeply concerned about deteriorating political and humanitarian situation in Libya. According to United Nations High Commission on Refugees (UNHCR) about two thousands (2000) people daily cross the Libyan border to the neighbouring countries while thousands of migrant workers remain trapped inside conflict zones. We are also concerned about report of increased proliferation of arms in that region. South Africa supports the people of Libya in their quest for peace, democratic reforms, justice, human right's culture, and socio-economic development that responds to their needs. We commend the African Union Peace and Security Committee (AU PSC) for establishment of a High Level Committee on Libya because currently it is the only viable solution peaceful resolution of the crisis in a manner that responds to the legitimate needs of the Libyan people. We reiterate the call by the AU for immediate ceasefire, cooperation by Libyan Authorities to facilitate humanitarian assistance, protection of foreign nationals including African migrant workers, and the adoption of political reforms to address the root cause of the conflict. We commend the roadmap of the AU HLC, which includes: þImmediate cessation of hostilities þHumanitarian assistance for the Libyan people and the migrant workers þInclusive political dialogue þInclusive transition, and þPolitical reforms As South Africa we say no to the killing of civilians, no to the regime change doctrine and no to the foreign occupation of Libya or any other sovereign state. The South African government calls for restraint to avoid any further civilian casualties and categorically rejects any efforts of using the current crisis in Libya to effect regime change while recognising the legitimate aspirations of the Libyan people for democracy and reform. We are confident that this is consistent with the African Union Peace and Security Council decision to "respect the unity and territorial integrity of Libya as well as its rejection of any foreign military intervention; whatever its form". South Africa will continue to work through this Council, the AU and other multilateral as well as bilateral platforms to contribute towards a speedy resolution of the Libyan crisis in a manner consistent with the aspirations of the people of the Libya. 1.2 Cabinet noted and respects the constitutional court judgment delivered on 17 March 2011 in the Glenister application involving the independence of the Directorate of Priority Crime Investigation, commonly known as the Hawks. The judgement is being studied in order to fully appreciate its implications. An announcement will be made at an appropriate time in this regard. 1.3 Cabinet noted South Africa's Second Annual Report on the implementation of the African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM). The country acceded to the APRM instrument in March 2003 thereby voluntarily subjecting itself to a review by peers in the areas of democracy and political governance; economic governance and management; corporate governance as well as socio-economic development. The monitoring requirements of the APRM require that South Africa submits periodic reports regarding the implementation of the National Programme of Action (NPoA). The report was accepted by the 14th Summit of Heads of State and Government participating in the APRM on 29 January 2011. Cabinet approved that the 3rd report will be submitted in 2013 and that South Africa will indicate when it is appropriate for the Peer Review Team to conduct a second review. 1.4 Cabinet approved the establishment of a South African Centre on African Public Debt and Bond Market Development in collaboration with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). This initiative envisages cooperation amongst African Public and Private institutions on current and future capital market developments within the continent, including facilitating a structured skills sharing platform aimed at promoting African Capital Investment structures which subscribe to international best practices. 1.5 Cabinet noted the preparations for the Nineteenth session of the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD 19) and approved South Africa's position for the CSD 19 (The Ministry of Water and Environmental Affairs will provide details on SA's position). 1.6 Cabinet approved South Africa's position on the fifth meeting of the Conference of Parties (COP5) to the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) to be held in Geneva, Switzerland from 25 to 29 April 2011. Its primary objective is to protect human health and the environment from POPs. SA needs to meet its obligations by effectively implementing the convention including the development or use of safer alternatives in the relevant industries when chemicals have been listed as POPs. 1.7 Cabinet noted the major international sporting events to be hosted in South Africa and the sporting events that South Africa intends bidding for. Due to the 2010 FIFA World Cup, the spotlight is now more focused on South Africa's ability to successfully host such events. Sports and Recreation South Africa is developing a sports, tourism bidding and hosting strategy, which will include a guide on which events South Africa should bid to host. 1.8 Cabinet noted progress on the Gautrain Project, the actions taken and the progress made with the integration of the Gautrain into the broader Gauteng transport system. 1.9 Cabinet has endorsed the celebration of April as Freedom month culminating to Freedom Day on 27 April 2011 under the theme working together to unite the nation, promote democracy and protect our freedom. Cabinet calls on all South Africans to claim the symbolism of this month by actively participating in key events. Cabinet decided that the Union Building will serve as the permanent venue for Freedom Day celebrations where the President will be making an address. Provinces are encouraged to display and celebrate their diverse heritage and culture. Cabinet also celebrates May Day (Worker's Day), a direct product of our democracy and encourages the protection of democracy by calling upon the nation to participate in the local government election on the 18th May 2011. 1.10 Cabinet noted that the GCIS Communication Strategy will be presented to Cabinet soon. The strategy will include further details on repositioning the Vuk'uzenzele publication. 1.11 Cabinet has received the report on the challenges being experienced by the Eastern Cape Department of Education and is studying the findings. 1.12 Cabinet notes government deliberations with labour on conditions of employment. Cabinet encourages all parties to deal with this matter in a manner that enhances mutual trust. 1.13 Cabinet noted the progress reports from the different clusters on the outcomes of government and is confident about implementation of delivery agreements. 1.14 Cabinet noted the interim report responding to the question on the holistic management of immigration in South Africa. An Inter Ministerial Committee (IMC) has been mandated to revert to Cabinet with a proposal on taking this forward. 2. Announcements 2.1 Cabinet congratulates both the national soccer team (Bafana Bafana) on their win against Egypt as well as the national cricket team (the Proteas) for their valiant play in reaching the quarter final match of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011. 2.2 Cabinet noted the International agenda for Government: þ31 March 2011: SADC Troika Summit to be attended by President Zuma þ14 to 15 April 2011: 3rd BRICS Leader's Summit þ27 to 31 March 2011: Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe's working visit to the United States þLabour/Government Summit: 19 April 2011 2.3 Government under the leadership of the Department of Health, will convene a National Nursing Summit from 4-6 April 2011 which provides a platform for government to highlight the integral role of nurses and midwives in contributing to the success of Government's health reform agenda. 2.4 National Child Labour Day on 4 April will be hosted in Stellenbosch. 2.5 Cabinet sends a warm note of appreciation to all those who in various ways volunteered to assist people in Japan during their time of crisis. 2.6 Cabinet sends its deepest condolences to the family of struggle veteran Mr Henry Gordon Makgothi. Mr Makgothi dedicated his entire life to the struggle and was a champion of the poor. Cabinet is also saddened by the passing away of the Baptist Church leader Mr Vimbeni Shembe and pass their condolences to the family. 3. Appointments 3.1 Mr Mzolisi Michael Toni was appointed Deputy Director-General: Children's Rights and Persons with Disabilities at the Department for Women, Children and Persons with Disabilities. 3.2 Mr K Morais was appointed Advisor in the African Group 3 Constituency (AFG- 3) at the World Bank for a period of 3-5 years. 3.3 Ms A Ludin was appointed as the Commissioner for the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission with effect from 1 April 2011 until 31 March 2016. 3.4 Mr R Voller was appointed as Deputy Commissioner for the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission with effect 1 April 2011 until 31 March 2016. 3.5 Mr N Mhlongo, Ms M Nakene, Ms M Nkomo (Deputy Chairperson) and Mr H Dikgale (re-appointment) were appointed as non executive members to the Board of the Cross-Border Road Transport Agency (C-BRTA). Issued by Government Communications (GCIS) Enquiries: Jimmy Manyi (Cabinet Spokesperson) Contact: 082 379 3454 31 March 2011