Pretoria – Learners at Qaka Primary School -- just outside Mthatha in the Eastern Cape -- have started a new chapter in their school careers, as they now have something to look forward to every day when they go to school. The learners say their new school building, which was officially opened today under government’s Accelerated Schools Infrastructure Development Initiative (ASIDI) programme, has made learning much more interesting, and they enjoy coming to school in a lovely building. The programme is aimed at replacing dilapidated schools with modern structures. Prior to the new school, the learners were using an old dilapidated structure nearby. According to school principal Melphina Ndabeni, it was difficult to teach at the old building, especially during rainy seasons. “When it rained, the classes became flooded and we were compelled to send children home. We are happy with the new school and the children are showing interest in learning,” she said. Ndabeni said attendance at the school has improved drastically. The school, which opened in 1995 with only three classrooms, now boasts 10 classrooms, a library, media centre and a staff room, among others. In total, the school has 135 learners and five teachers. The school joins the list of brand new schools that have been opened as part of the One-school-a-week campaign, which has seen the opening of Notsolo Primary School, Mqokolweni Primary School, Kwenxura, Gqweza, Dumile and Ndlovayiphathwa Primary School as part of ASIDI . In line with the Basic Education Minister’s commitment to hand over a new school every week in the Eastern Cape, Qaka Primary School -- which was officially handed over by Public Service and Administration Deputy Minister Ayando Dlodlo -- is the seventh to be handed over in the province. Dlodlo appealed to community members to take good care of the school. “Let’s give our children a chance to learn. People should not destroy schools,” she said. Andisiwe Sithau, 10, a learner at the school, told SAnews that she was happy with the new school. “We now have new chairs to sit on.” ASIDI programme The ASIDI project has become part of the Presidential Infrastructure Coordinating Commission (PICC), which is aimed at rolling out infrastructure delivery in the country. The One-school-a-week campaign was officially launched by Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga on 17 July 2013 at the handover ceremony of Mandela Park Primary School in Mthatha, and it coincided with the celebration of the 95th birthday celebration of former President Nelson Mandela. The occasion was used to demonstrate Madiba’s passion for education, especially his rallying call for business to invest in education by building schools in needy communities. Government’s contribution to replacing inappropriate school structures through ASIDI has become a significant milestone for the expansion of access to basic education for all South African children. The new schools complement the Department of Basic Education’s efforts to fight against inequality in education. The programme forms part of the government’s National Development Plan (NDP) -- Strategic Infrastructure Project 13 (SIP13) which involves the rebuilding of schools. In total, about 50 schools are to be built through the ASIDI programme to accommodate more than 10 000 learners in the Eastern Cape. The R8.2 billion public-private programme aims to eradicate the 496 mud schools in the country, provide water and sanitation to 1 257 schools and electricity to 878 schools by March 2016. – SAnews.gov.za