Pretoria – President Jacob Zuma says South Africans should be proud of the soldiers who were killed in the Central African Republic (CAR) last week during clashes with rebels. Thirteen South African National Defence Force (SANDF) members died in Bangui and 27 others sustained injuries during a gun battle with the rebel alliance known as Seleka. “The tears of grief from the families are inevitable… because of the calibre of men we have lost. “To the families, your pain is shared by thousands of South Africans in many corners of the country and the continent. “When future generations ask what kind of men and women these were, who gave so much of their lives to the service of the people of South Africa and the continent, we will be able to boldly say how special they were, to put their own lives at risk for such a noble mission of building peace in the continent,” said Zuma at the memorial service held at the South African Air Force Base in Pretoria on Tuesday. The SANDF members deployed in CAR came under attack from Seleka rebels on the outskirts of Bangui. Zuma rebutted claims that the SANDF members in CAR were there for reasons other than national interest and the mandate of the African Union. He explained that the soldiers in CAR were there to provide military training, refurbish bases and barracks and the provision of equipment. South Africa and the CAR signed a military cooperation agreement in 2007, which was renewed for a further five years in December 2012. The agreement was to provide the CAR’s army with an array of military training, from infantry, artillery and special forces training to logistics and driving courses, as well as the refurbishment of military infrastructure in Bouar and Bangui. “They died defending our commitment to the renewal of the African continent, and to the promotion of peace and stability, which would lead to sustainable development in Africa,” said Zuma. Major Steven Jiyane, who was in charge of the SANDF members in CAR when they came under attack, also spoke at the memorial. He praised the soldiers for their bravery and regarded them as warriors. “They fought like lions, they demonstrated exceptional military skills,” he said. Most of the deceased soldiers are from Bloemfontein. With regard to the burial, families will lay to rest their loved ones separately. According to the SANDF, all will be accorded full state funerals. Defence and Military Veterans Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula also praised the fallen soldiers for their bravery. Speaking on behalf of the families, Thembisile Jilimba thanked government for supporting them in this difficult time. The mood at the memorial service was sombre, with most family members seen crying for their beloved ones. “When we heard the devastating news, we were all in pain. We would like to thank the government for the support given to us,” said Jilimba. Meanwhile, President Zuma is tomorrow expected to attend the Extra-ordinary Summit of the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS), which will also discuss the Central African Republic. – SAnews.gov.za