Johannesburg - Mourners attending the funeral of the late African National Congress (ANC) struggle hero, Bertha Gxowa, have paid tribute to her, saying she was a unifier and fighter for human rights. "She is a person who will always be remembered. She has always been a human rights [champion]," friend and Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry, Elizabeth Thabethe, told mourners - mostly wearing ANC Women's League uniform - at Huntersfield stadium in Ekurhuleni. She described her as a compassionate woman, teacher, mentor and sister of integrity, who loved life and style. She said the 76-year-old was one of many women and men who selflessly chose to dedicate their lives to the people of this country and the improvement of the quality of life for all South Africans. President of the ANC Women's League, Angie Motshekga, described her as a disciplined cadre, organiser and unifier. "She was really a mother for us in the Women's League ... South Africa has lost a one of its most committed activists." Motshekga said she would be remembered for her contribution to the national Gender Policy Framework, dedication and hard work. Arts and Culture Minister and ANC provincial chairperson, Paul Mashatile, also had kind words for Gxowa. "More efforts must be dedicated to eradicating the problems that Comrade Bertha dedicated her life to fighting against," said Mashatile, adding that the country was indebted to her. He said her passing should inspire South Africans to work harder to achieving gender equity and improving the lives of ordinary people. ANC veteran Sophie Williams-de Bruyn said Gxowa was not only a gender activist, scholar, and hard worker, but a friend. "She was one of the most outstanding leaders of our time ... but she was also my sister." Progressive Women's Movement of South Africa's Dr Namane Magau said her death robbed the country of a committed leader, who defended the Constitution of the country right up to the very end. Gxowa died at a Johannesburg hospital last week. She was born on November 28, 1934, in Germiston. She started her working life as an office assistant for the South African Clothing Workers' Union. She signed up to join the ANC Youth League during the anti-Bantu education campaign. Between 1956 and 1958, Gxowa was a defendant in the Treason Trial. She was banned under the Suppression of Communism Act, a status she remained in for 11 years. MaBertha dedicated her life to women's skills development in the country. She was the national Chairperson of the Malibongwe Women's Development. Gxowa is survived by two sisters, two brothers, four children, 12 grandchildren, 7 great children and one great- great grandchild.