Pretoria - Gordon Igesund is the favourite amongst the five candidates shortlisted by the technical committee of the South African Football Association (Safa) to coach Bafana Bafana. The other short-listed candidates are Bafana caretaker coach Steve Komphela, Supersport United coach, Gavin Hunt, under 23 head coach, Ephraim "Shake" Mashaba and Thanda Royal Zulu coach Neil Tovey. Safa contacted the five coaches and their respective clubs on Thursday to enquire if they were prepared to come and do a presentation to the selection panel that will interview them starting from next week Wednesday. All the candidates, according to technical committee chairperson Fanyani Sibanyoni, have agreed to avail themselves for the interviewing process which will be concluded on 18 June. Sibanyoni said the committee developed a set of criteria for the appointment of the coach and the key of which was that Safa would only consider a local coach for the position. "The coaches will be provided with the agreed set of criteria and given a maximum of two hours for presentation and the interview and the final recommended candidate will be presented to Safa National executive committee (NEC) on 30 June or earlier," said Sibanyoni. The selection panel will consist of members of the technical committee, Safa technical director, chief executive officer and the chairperson of the International Board and Commercial Committee. Safa chief executive officer, Dr Robin Petersen said they were also going to approach Jomo Cosmos owner, Jomo Sono and Kaizer Chiefs boss, Kaizer Motaung to serve on the panel. Shortly after the sacking of Bafana coach Pitso Mosimane before midnight on Monday, the majority of South Africans on social networks were calling for Igesund to be appointed as Bafana coach. At that time, the Moroka Swallows mentor was in China where the Dube Birds were participating in a four-team friendly tournament. Igesund is former coach for Orlando Pirates, Santos, Manning Rangers and Mamelodi Sundowns and he is the only coach to have won four Premier Soccer League (PSL) championships with four different teams. Last month, Igesund walked away with the Coach of the Season Award