Johannesburg - President Jacob Zuma has hailed Bertha Gxowa as a disciplined, caring and selfless servant of the people of South Africa. "As we bid farewell to this national hero, living as we do now in a free, thriving non-racial democracy, let us all salute her for her self-less contribution, dedication and commitment to this country and its people," Zuma said. Addressing the funeral service of the ANC stalwart, Zuma said MaBertha, as she was known, served South Africans diligently and sacrificed her own life to improve the livelihood of the poor. Gxowa, 76, died last week from complications after an operation in Sunninghill hospital. The President told mourners at the special provincial funeral, that Gxowa sacrificed 59 years of her life for the country, its people, and that she was part of a generation who was dedicated to building a better South Africa. "She has been part of a very exemplary generation of men and women who understood the mission of building a better South Africa, based on tried and tested values enshrined in the Freedom Charter and the Constitution of our country." Zuma said Gxowa had been a dedicated activist, who was prepared to execute ANC tasks in the fight for freedom for women. In this light, Zuma said the country was bound to build a society that MaBertha had fought for - one in which men and women had equal opportunities. Her grandchildren also took turns to pay emotional tributes to her. Most said they would miss her loving, caring, principled and fearless character. "My memories of you will be reinforced by seeing every young woman in the country able to reach their full potential," said one. Another grandchild said: "She was the most down to earth person, hero, pillar of strength and loving friend." Hundreds of ANC Women's League members, dressed in their green and black uniform, joined the mourners, as well as government ministers at Huntersfield stadium in Ekurhuleni to bid her farewell. The list included Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe, ANC top brass such as Gwede Mantashe, Baleka Mbethe, Ministers of Defence Lindiwe Sisulu, Social Development Bathabile Dlamini, Basic Education Angie Motshekga, Arts and Culture Paul Mashatile, Deputy Minister for Public Works Hendrietta Bogopane-Zulu and parliamentarians Max Sisulu and Butana Komphela, including Zimbabwe's Deputy Prime Minister Thokozani Khupe. Her coffin, which arrived at 8am, was wrapped in an African National Congress flag but was later draped with the national flag. A giant screen displaying her portrait and footage from her days loomed large. The gathering in the marquee sang the struggle song, Malibongwe igama lamakhosikazi (praise be to women), among others. All speakers praised Gxowa for her commitment to serving the country and women rights. She was praised as a heroine, compassionate woman, teacher, mentor and sister of integrity, who loved life and style. In a message read on her behalf, Gauteng Premier Nomvula Mokonyane - who is also mourning the death of her son - said she dedicated her entire life to the struggle and to the upliftment of women in South Africa, in particular the poorest of the poor. "There is little doubt she is leaving a huge void behind," said Mokonyane. Arts and Culture Minister and ANC provincial chairperson, Paul Mashatile - who was among the speakers - said her passing should inspire South Africans to redouble efforts in the struggle against gender oppression and betterment of the lives of ordinary South Africans. Gxowa is survived by two sisters, two brothers, four children, 12 grandchildren, 7 great children and one great- great grandchild. Her final resting place will be Thomas Nkobi (South Park) cemetery.