Pretoria - Corporates have been urged to invest in The President's Award for Youth Empowerment to ensure that the benefits received by the young people being reached by this initiative, continue. Representing the Patron-in-Chief of The President's Award, Minister in the Presidency for Performance Monitoring and Evaluation, Collins Chabane, said with the country's unemployment rate peaking and the youth being the hardest hit, it was imperative to provide a framework for youth-at-risk that will provide them with positive, affirming alternatives to today's challenges. Chabane was speaking on Thursday at The President's Award for Youth Empowerment Presidential Dinner, sponsored by Absa Group, which sought to encourage corporate South Africa to answer President Jacob Zuma's call for support of the organisation's valuable work for youth development. President Zuma is the Patron-in-Chief of the organisation, having taken over from former President Nelson Mandela. Chababe said experiences in youth formed the cornerstone of one's outlook well into adult life. "It is our responsibility as a nation to reach out to young people and assure them that everything will be ok. If we don't do that, we will be taking the country backwards," said Chabane. Also present at the gala dinner, held at Sandton Convention Centre in Johannesburg, were Arts and Culture Minister, Paul Mashatile, and a group of Gold Award Holders, who shared how the programme has changed their lives. Gold Award participant Humairah Jassat, who is the founder of the Global Pink Hijab Day - which encourages women to wear pink scarves and donate R2 to the Cancer Association of SA - said through her initiative and the programme, she hoped to bring a glimmer of hope, joy and encouragement to every individual. Although she admitted that it was not going to be an easy task, her hope was that one day, she would look back and know she tried. "I share this enthusiasm as I believe that it's not about what we give, but what we share," Jassat said. Another Gold award participant, Ayanda Nzimande, spoke about how the programme helped him to be a better person. Nzimande, who was in prison at the age of 14, said the programme had a positive impact on young people and it opened doors for him. "It has given me the opportunity to encourage commitment, discipline and passion for community service among other youth," said Nzimande, who turned his life around after being involved in drugs and crime at a young age. Absa Deputy Group Chief Executive, Louis von Zeuner, believed that as youngsters integrated the values of the programme into their lives, they would become sufficiently empowered to at least attempt to turn their dreams into reality. "This was the fundamental reason that we contributed towards the programme. The work of The President's Award Programme with young people in South Africa is significant and it needs continued support. This, ultimately, contributes to the long-term well-being of our country," said Zeuner. Also speaking at the event, Chairman of The President's Award for Youth Empowerment Trust, Warren Clewlow, said they were committed to touching more lives though the programme. "Our affiliation with the Duke of Edinburgh's International Award Association enables us to network with over 130 countries around the world offering the same opportunities to their young people, providing a quality experience to all young people who enrol - we are truly part of a global network." Endorsed by the Presidency, the basic philosophy informing The President's Award Programme is its focus on individual challenge and holistic development for young people between the ages of 14 and 25. The programme seeks to empower the youth to chart their own path of self-discovery, development and growth. Through the programme, they are exposed to key leadership fundamentals, including skills development, recreation, community service and the undertaking of an adventurous journey. Since its inception 29 years ago, the programme has not only helped more than 100 000 young people in South Africa on the path towards reaching their full potential, the participants have also collectively undertaken over 405 000 hours of community service to date.