Pretoria - A lucky batch of high school students in Gauteng completed their learner driver's licence as part of the launch of the province's Learner Driver Support Project (LDSP). The LDSP, which is aimed at developing driving as critical life skills for young people in the province before leaving matric, was launched by Gauteng Premier Nomvula Mokonyane. "The introduction of (the) project to provide learners with an opportunity to matriculate with a driver's licence, was not only apt, but long overdue. "Our view regarding the importance of the project is that it will entrench good road safety habits in our people while they are still young," she said. The LDSP will allow learners in both grade 11 and 12 to write their learner's licence examinations and complete their driver's licence tests before they matriculate. Mokonyane said the students will be taught to operate light vehicles in accordance with K53 principles. "The reason we have had such a huge backlog in driver's licence tests has been the fact that many people avoid taking licences for light vehicles as the practical tests require much more than tests for heavy motor vehicles. "This is despite the fact that many of those who acquire heavy vehicle licences in the most drive light vehicles. It has been said that this anomaly has contributed to the high number of fatalities we see on our roads every day," she said. The project is expected to pay special focus on defensive driving techniques and instil a clear understanding of road safety rules, procedures and regulations. The premier said many jobs required a valid driver's licence. "We believe through this project, many of our young people will be empowered, therefore increasing their chances of employability," she said. The project has created employment opportunities for 100 qualified driver instructors, who will be signed on five-year non-renewable contracts. The project will be piloted in the Nokeng Tsa Taemane Local Municipality in the Metsweding District as well as some areas of the Tshwane Metropolitan area. The provincial government has already developed criteria that all the learners will have to adhere to. In terms of the criteria, learners would need to be 16 years old to apply for the learner's licence and 18 years old to test for their drivers' license. They must also be registered at the participating high school and should be able to pay the total training cost of R1 195 for the driving licence and R195 for the learner's licence. The project is a partnership between the Gauteng Departments of Roads and Transport, Economic Development and Community Safety.