Pretoria-   The late former President Nelson Mandela’s body has returned to the Union Buildings where he was sworn in as the country’s first democratically elected president almost 20 years ago. In 1994, the Union Buildings played host to his inauguration, heralding the beginning of a new era in South Africa's history. Mandela’s body arrived in a glass-sided black hearse just before 8am from the 1 Military Hospital in Thaba Thswane with his coffin draped in the South African flag. He will lie in state at the Nelson Mandela Amphitheatre, where the public will have an opportunity to view the body of the father of the nation. Grandson Ndaba Mandela welcomed Madiba's body at the Amphitheatre. The public will be able to view the body from noon until 5:30pm, however no cameras or cell phones are permitted. The public viewing will be preceded by the viewing by the Mandela family and several Heads of State who touched down in the country after learning about Madiba’s passing. Over 100 current and former heads of state, kings, queens and A-list celebrities arrived in the country to pay their last respects to the global icon. According to the proceedings, there will be a parade with a gun carriage drawn by soldiers, a 21-gun salute and a moment of silence. There will also be a constant vigil at Mandela's coffin and a funeral procession led by the military's national ceremonial guard. Officials on Monday announced that access to the Union Buildings for viewing the body would be restricted – only those in buses provided by the City of Tshwane would be allowed in. Members of the public have been asked  use the park-and-ride facilities at the Tshwane Events Centre in Pretoria West, LC De Villiers Sports Facility in Hatfield and Fountains Valley Park. The buses will drop people off at the Union Buildings where they will be allowed to walk past and look inside the glass-topped coffin. On Thursday and Friday, the public will have access to the amphitheatre from 8am until 5.30pm.  - SAnews.gov.za