Pretoria - The iconic Market Theatre in Newtown is hosting a memorial service today to pay homage to the late former President Nelson Madiba, 95, who died on December 5. Chairman of the Market Theatre Foundation Council, Kwanele Gumbi, said: “Our stages remain iconic to the era of their purpose - to liberate a country and a people. “We have defined the present times to honour that heritage and link it to the future. President Mandela’s forthrightness, sense of purpose and brilliant accomplishments inspire us to do more, often with little.” The memorial service at the Market Theatre in Johannesburg sets the tone for today’s activities, as later this evening, the South African State Theatre in Pretoria will host the Nelson Mandela Memorial Concert in honour of Madiba. The concert to be held tonight at 7:30pm will host South Africa’s artistic royalty such as Vusi Mahlasela, the eclectic women’s jazz combo, Ladies in Jazz based in Pretoria and the powerful voice of Thembisile Ntaka joins the list of celebrated musical and theatre royalty announced earlier, which include Gcina Mhlophe, Simphiwe Dana, Sipho Mabuse, Jessica Mbangeni, Mak Manaka, Gauteng Choristers conducted by Sidwell Mhlongo, Jerry Mofokeng, Sello Maake ka-Ncube, Seputla Sebogodi, Xolile Tshabalala, David James, Vuyani Dance Theatre, to mention but a few.    Event co-organiser, Sibongile Khumalo said: “Through these various activities, members of the Arts and Culture sector are aligning their purpose through a collective of positive, uplifting energy. “As we reflect on, and celebrate Madiba’s life, we honour him for playing an important role in helping to create the space for us to aspire to greatness. “The music industry salutes an extraordinary man who lived an exceptional life. We commit ourselves to uphold the ideals he lived for.” Khumalo said the industry is grateful to Mandela who once said: “South Africa is fortunate to have a strong cultural sector, rich in potential and emerging talent to feed and sustain its future growth.” - SAnews.gov.za