Nelspruit- Mpumalanga's Department of Health and Social Development says the media, NGOs and sporting bodies must include the protection and promotion of children's rights in their programmes ahead of the FIFA World Cup. Commenting on Child Protection Week, MEC Dikeledi Mahlangu said these sectors could play a major role in child protection as South Africa prepares for the soccer tournament. "This year, for good reasons, we link Child Protection Week to the World Cup tournament. We are mindful that an event of this magnitude unfortunately also opens up opportunities for criminals, such as those who traffic in women and children. Therefore we urge the media, NGOs and sporting bodies to help us combat human trafficking during this World Cup," she said. According to Mahlangu, the extended closure of schools for the mid-term vacation during the World Cup will leave large numbers of children largely without full-time supervision. "We urge parents to take extra care and ensure that their children are supervised at all times. Children wandering alone in shopping malls and football stadiums will be vulnerable to people with evil intentions." She said every South African should also use Child Protection Week to raise awareness of the protection of children against poverty and vulnerability. "We seek to strengthen collaboration efforts to address social ills such as child neglect, abuse and exploitation, as well as substance abuse and other circumstances that perpetuate child vulnerability," she said. Mahlangu said children in Mpumalanga were faced with poverty that was compounded by a lack of access to basic services such as housing, water and electricity, as well as limited education access. "Tackling child poverty will therefore require a coordinated approach to services for families. They need access to employment, essential public services and early childhood development services. "It is again very important to recognise the role of parents, the community, faith-based organisations and the private sector in tackling child poverty. The government cannot root out poverty alone but only through partnerships with those who embrace the principle of a caring society," Mahlangu said.