Pretoria - Taking the lead in the fight against HIV and AIDS, the Free State kicked off its HIV, Counselling and Testing (HCT) campaign at the Louis Botha Hall today. The provincial launch, which follows the national launch on Sunday by President Jacob Zuma, will offer testing to patients at the entry points in all health institutions. Themed, "I am responsible", the campaign forms part of government's new and up-scaled HIV and AIDS prevention and treatment plan which hopes to get 15 million people tested by June 2011. On Friday, the North West and KwaZulu-Natal will launch their campaign with provincial leaders expected to get tested. The launch will take place at the Matlosana stadium in Klerksdorp, where politicians including Premier Maureen Modiselle and provincial MEC for Health and Social Development, Rebecca Kasienyane, will undergo public testing. Modiselle urged people to embrace the benefits of knowing their status to save their lives. She said the provincial government expects 80 percent of the 3.4 million residents to have tested by the end of the campaign. "Knowing your status is the best means of survival, it provides an opportunity to review our lives and choose a lifestyle that will promote longevity," Modiselle said, adding that over 20 testing centres will be available during the launch. In KwaZulu-Natal, the Department of Health will launch the campaign at the Edendale Hospital in Pietermaritzburg and hopes to test 3.5 million people by June next year. Health MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo said over 335 000 people were on ARV treatment and the department plans to enroll over 470 400 in 2010/11. "KZN must do even more because it is where the epicenter of the HIV burden is in South Africa, together, we have the power to change the course of the HIV epidemic in the KwaZulu-Natal," Dhlomo said. Other provinces are expected to roll out their provincial campaign in the coming weeks. The objectives of the new scaled up plan are to reduce the rate of infection by 50 percent by 2011 and to provide ARV treatment to 80 percent of those who need the treatment. Other objectives include more emphasis on prevention through information, education, widespread distribution of condoms and mobilisation of millions of South Africans to know their status.