Pretoria - The City of Tshwane is seeing a successful 2010 FIFA World Cup out with a bang this week with an all-star line-up at the Fan Fest in Centurion, both on match days and non-match days. All the remaining five matches will be screened at the Fan Fest and entrance is free of charge. The City will provide buses from township areas and the CBD and ample parking is available for those going by car. "Visitors have also been pleasantly surprised and given positive feedback to media about the reasonable prices for food and beverages at the Tshwane venue. Fans can chose between mainline fast food chains and home-made food by local vendors," said city spokesperson Console Tleane. On the two remaining tournament rest days, the City will be hosting special Champions Concerts. Thursday 8 July will feature "DJs Unlimited", a marathon day of the very best in local and international DJs from 12:00 till late. The golden era of the 80s and 90's will be celebrated on Friday 9 July with the Legends Music Spectacular featuring a nostalgic line-up of South African greats. "These concerts, unlike the match days at the Fan Fest, have a nominal entry fee. Entrance is R30 for pre-booked tickets (Computicket and Shoprite stores) and R50 at the gate," Tleane said. Internationally acclaimed local band, the Parlotones, will join Stimela and Black Coffee for a grand finale on 11 June on the day of the finals. On Wednesday, for the semi-final between Germany and Spain at 20:30, fans will be entertainment by Dineo Ranaka, Arno Carstens, Jozi, Rhythmic Element and Positive K. On Thursday, thousands will be entertained at the Champions Concert Day until midnight. The concert will feature DJ Fresh, DJ Nutty, Christos, Vinni Davinci, Maestro, Oskido, Naked DJ, GT6 and special appearance by the top international DJs Ralf Gum, Martin East, Lars Berenroth and Dj Halo, plus legendary DJ Knaan. Entrance is R50 at the gate or R30 if pre-booked at Computicket or Shoprite. On Friday, the Champions Concert Day will run from 14:00 until 22:00. Entrance is R50 at the gate or R30 if pre-booked at Computicket or Shoprite. The eight-hour concert will feature 27 prominent South African artists from the 80's and 90's. The Legends' concert line-up includes artists that produced hits in genres like "bubblegum music" as well as disco greats that have disappointed critics and stood the test of time. The ever-colorful Doctor Victor, PJ Powers, Pat Shange, Ali Katt and Zizi Kongo form part of the yesteryear's greats that will grace the stage. Yvonne Chaka Chaka, who made traditional African beer an instant hit with her song Umqombhothi, and Mercy Phakela, who without a doubt increased revenue for takkie retailers with her smash hit "ayashisa amateki", will add to the mix. The host for the day will be the ever exuberant comedian and all-rounder, filmmaker and kwaito artist, Senyaka. On Saturday, for the 3rd and 4th Playoffs at 20:30, crowds will be entertainment by Boy Peza, Mixcellent & the Drum Master, Morgan Beatboxer, Kats, Tzozo & Professor and DJ Christos On Sunday, the 2010 FIFA World Cup Finals and Closing Ceremony Grand Finale, fans will be entertained by DJ Mixcellent, Lady Lea, Black Coffee, Stimela and the Parlotones.