Pretoria - Matriculants in Mamelodi, east of Pretoria could not contain their excitement, others were disappointed when they found out their much anticipated results. After anxiously checking that her name was published in one of the newspapers carrying the 2009 matric results, Keitumetse Baloyi, 18, who got a distinction in Life Orientation told BuaNews she never expected to get a university exemption. She had been worried about her Maths and Science marks. The former Phateng Secondary School learner said she intend on enrolling for a Veterinary Science Degree at the Tshwane University of Technology. While there was much jubilation, there was also disappointment for some students. Glen High School learner, Humphrey Tshabalala, 18, said he was disappointed with his results because he failed to qualify for a Bachelor's Degree. "I was hoping for a Bachelor's Degree exemption, but now that I did not get it, I am considering studying Logistics at the University of Johannesburg," he said. His school mate, Neo Mphafudi, 19, who described matric as one of his most difficult experiences, said he was hoping to pursue a career in sound engineering. "I worked hard throughout the year to ensure a smooth path to further my education at the tertiary level," he said. Together with his excited classmates from Prosperitus High in Eersterus, Gideon Maleswena, 19, woke up early in the morning to get their own copy of the newspaper. "I was nervous, even though I new that I would pass and the only two subjects stressing me were Maths and Science," he said, adding that he was going to study Information Technology (IT) at CTI College. Thapelo Sithole, 17, also from Prosperitus said he was overwhelmed with his results because not everyone was able to pass matric. Sithole, who intends studying Graphic Design at TUT, advised those who will be writing the Grade 12 exams this year "to arrange study groups, always take notes in class and to distance themselves from alcohol and drugs". Another learner from the Eersterus School, Rhulani Mthembi, 17, said after he found both the Maths papers difficult, he never thought that he would pass. Luckily, he was wrong. "The Maths papers were difficult, but because I have managed to pass I can now pursue a career in IT at CTI College." Prosperitus school principal, Rafael Griffiths, said all 232 learners in Grade 12 were committed to their studies. "We have a dedicated team of teachers and management at this school, so it was easy for those learners from Mamelodi to remain committed to their studies throughout the year," he said. Griffiths said in the 2008 academic year, the school achieved a 67 percent pass rate in Grade 12, which dropped to 52 percent in the 2009 academic year.