Pretoria - Bafana Bafana drew 1-1 against 39th ranked Bulgaria last night at the Orlando Stadium. Although Bafana failed to edge over a formidable and credible Bulgarian team, they made the nation proud with their great display of football. Crowds of Bafana fans braved the cold weather to watch the national team in action last night. The game started at a high pace with the visitors playing positive attacking football which could have lead to a goal. However, the 39th ranking Bulgarian national team ran out of steam shortly after five minutes into the game as they failed to create anything of note for about 30 minutes. Bafana players, who seemed hungry for an early goal, out-battled and out-competed the Bulgarians who were left with no other options, but to make erratic tackles outside their box. As the home team continued to cause more upset, their opponents on the other hand continued to commit minor fouls outside their box, allowing their goal keeper, Nikolay Mihaylov, to make brilliant saves. It was on the 10th minute when Bafana diminutive striker, Katlego Mphela, unleashed a grass-cutter shot which was saved by Mihaylov. Bafana players continued to keep the Bulgarian goalie busy as Siphiwe "Shabba" Tshablala caused more havoc with his well-taken set piece which was slightly missed by Surprise Moriri. Bafana skipper, Teko Modise, who was a marvel to watch also, tested Mihaylov skills with a volley 26 metres from the box, but the Bulgarian goalie was up to the challenge. In the 20th minute, Tshabalala took a corner-kick which was met with a powerful-header from unmarked Bafana defender Siyabonga Sangweni to put his side on the lead. However, after scoring the goal, the home team took out its foot from the pedal and put more pressure on defence. As a result, the solid Bafana defence lost focus and left the Bulgarian striker, Valeri Bozhinov, alone in the box and easily beat Itumeleng Khune to get an equaliser for his side. Bafana almost came close to the lead again when Reneilwe Letsholonyane unleashed a thunderous shot on the edge of the box after a corner-kick was cleared to him, but it was saved by Mihaylov. The second half saw Carlos Parreira brining in three of his European-based players, Tsepo Masilela, Aaron Mokoena and Kagisho Dikgacoi. Siyabonga Nomvete replaced Surprise Moriri, while Bernard Parker replaced Teko Modise. Khune made a brilliant save after he was left face to face with Dimitar Rangelov inside the box. Although Bafana Bafana continued to control the game, they failed to create more goal scoring opportunities like they did in the first half.