Durban - Pinky Naicker, 22, has mastered the Diski dance but she still has more to learn as training for volunteers for the 2010 FIFA World Cup in KwaZulu-Natal kicked off. Naicker, a Gingindlovu resident, was one of 1517 fortunate people selected out of hundreds of thousands who applied to be volunteers. Durban and Polokwane are the final two host cities to conduct training. The three-day programme, which started on Friday, will focus on getting to know South Africa and Durban, and specialised training in the various sectors that volunteers will be required to work in. Naicker, who will work at a welcome and information centre, said she is delighted to be chosen to be a part of the World Cup. "I just expect everything to go well and to be a part of this is amazing. But this is not just a great opportunity - this is more a life experience," Naicker said. The volunteers have to be 18 and over and in Durban the oldest volunteer is 72-years old. There was an international flair in the packed auditorium which included Cuban, Italian, Korean and German volunteers. The volunteers were selected from all walks of life and included the unemployed, students, doctors, lawyers and company CEOs. They have all met the basic requirements: they speak English, have completed matric, have a South African Identity Document. International volunteers had to have a valid passport. The atmosphere in Durban was electric as the volunteers, mainly clad in football jerseys, were introduced to their trainers and the Moses Mabhida Stadium management staff. Bongi Hlophe, Venue Manager at the Moses Mabhida, said there is no tournament as big as the World Cup, therefore it will be a once in a life time opportunity for many people. "There is no tournament that is big as soccer, also not as democratic as soccer. There are over 200 associations that compete for a place in the World Cup," Hlophe said. One volunteer, who recognises the magnitude of the tournament, is 20-year-old Happiness Marcus from Mandeni. "I will get a chance to see Brazil play, also my hero Drogba (Didier). It doesn't get bigger than this. This opportunity makes me feel so proud to be South African," Marcus said. Clayton Peters from the Youth Development Agency, who played a role in the recruitment of volunteers, also addressed the massive crowd. He said the excitement around all the training centres in the host cities were palatable. He reminded the volunteers that they are brand ambassadors for South Africa and urged them to do everything in their power to uphold the country's reputation for its friendliness and warm hospitality. Most volunteers were surprised that they were selected because of the huge volume of applications. And it could have not come at a better time for Mtubatuba resident, Thabani Nyawo, who is doing his Masters Degree in Higher Education Management. "This is not something I can explain - this feeling of being a part of this event. I will be working in the volunteer management section. This provides me with experience that will contribute to my studies," Nyawo said. While the volunteers will be hard at work over the weekend, you can rest assure that they will only be doing one thing during their break and that is the Diski dance.