Pretoria - Police Commissioner General Bheki Cele has refuted media reports that suggested he had lied in Parliament about the resignation of three generals and his involvement in the rental of two buildings. Media reports claimed General Cele lied to Parliament about two rental deals to move police to new offices in Pretoria and Durban. They further suggested that he lied about the resignation of Generals Hamilton Hlela, Matthews Sivundla and Stefanus Terblanche, who were involved in the SAPS supply chain management. It was reported that on Friday General Cele told Parliament that the Generals resigned after he had asked the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) to investigate tender deals approved by the supply chain management since 2006. However, the Generals disputed this, claiming they had received a "golden handshake" to leave. A statement issued by the office of General Cele, however, says the retired generals left the saps supply chain management in total chaos, had misled Parliament for years and were not given golden handshakes. "It would be best to exercise caution with respect to giving too much reliance to comments of people whose previous working environments are currently subject to serious investigation," General Cele said in a statement. He added that the "point has to be made that only Parliament can make a finding that it has been misled or not. The Generals who are ostensibly the sources behind this allegation are free to assist Parliament in this regard". In May 2010, the retired generals failed to provide responses to Parliament on gross violations, inefficiency and mismanagement in building services, property management and other Supply Chain Management functions, the statement said. Their "sudden exit" from the SAPS came soon after the SIU probe was announced and just days before they were scheduled to appear before Parliament's portfolio committee. The Section of Supply Chain which came under the spotlight in Parliament was previously under the command of Terblanche. Terblanche was accountable to General Siwundla and Hlela was in overall command. "For years they managed inefficiently. They were released or discharged according to section 35 (b) of the South African Police Act for reasons which will promote efficiency or economy in the Service or will otherwise will be in the interest of the service," General Cele added. Regarding the building rental deal, General Cele said his only role was to sign and approve the needs assessment for additional premises to accommodate the SAPS, Hlela and Terblanche claimed his involvement went further. The suggestions that he had lied were malicious, he said.