Durban - Arts and Culture MEC Weziwe Thusi has provided KwaZulu-Natal with an R88 million coffer for the development and support of arts infrastructure. Thusi, who presented her 2010/2011 Budget Vote on Friday, wants to continue promoting the arts, more especially in rural areas. Money will also be spent on renovating selected camp sites and community centres. She said that community arts centres at Osizweni and Bulwer have registered significant progress, while processes to get the centres in Mbazwana, uThungulu and eMnambithi fully operational have been initiated. "This symbolises the department's commitment in improving rural arts and cultural opportunities for generations to come. We are optimistic that the overall infrastructure budget of R88m will take us closer to where we want to be," the MEC said. Thusi set aside just over a million Rands for various cultural organisations to promote arts and culture and create job opportunities for women, youth and people in rural communities. On the subject of women, the department has attained 58 percent female representation across all levels of staff and 57 percent at executive committee level. With respect to the disability targets, the department has registered a 0.92 percent. The strategy introduced in 2009 will be reinforced to ensure that there is a turnaround to meet the disability target. Artists can expect to get more financial backing from provincial government this year. "This strategy will be accelerated in 2010 with 2 950 artists and 46 arts and culture institutions directly benefiting with a budget of R19 826 million," the MEC said. The visual and performing arts, craft, fashion design, theatre and film development will be expanded. "We will develop sustainable programmes for our artists to showcase their artistic creations and excel in their respective disciplines." The craft sector will also receive financial support after years of being marginalised. Craft continues to be one of major economic activities boosting rural economies in terms of job and wealth creation. A partnership with the Department of Economic Development and Tourism will benefit 430 people and see 11 cooperatives receiving support. The MEC said her department will join forces with the Correctional Services to provide a rehabilitation programme at prisons. A total of 460 inmates will undergo training on visual arts, craft, performing arts and literature writing and 14 correctional facilities have been targeted for this project. "This is part of our human development venture which is aimed at reintegrating inmates into society and using them to send messages to the youth that crime does not pay," the MEC said. Apart from the focus on the 2010 FIFA World Cup, "we are working to ensure sure that historic celebrations such as the 20th Anniversary of former President Madiba's release will be celebrated". The 100 years Anniversary of Shembe Church and 150 years Anniversary of the arrival of Indentured Indians will also be commemorated with a series of activities around the province.