Johannesburg-South Africa and other African countries are using the four week-long World football tournament to showcase their unique culture. Arts and Culture Minister, Lulu Xingwana, said her department has funded 22 projects to showcase South Africa's and the rest of the continent's culture to international tourists. Xingwana said through the projects, visitors will be entertained through music as well showcasing history through theatre and craft. "We believe this will afford our visitors to buy some of the items as mementos of their time in South Africa. "We wanted to provide visitors with an African experience in addition to the soccer matches," she said. Some of the funded projects are Tap Roots at the Windybrow Theatre, which is a fusion of different local cultures expressed through a vibrant musical show that showcases the country's heritage as well as the amazing complex tapestry that makes up the host nation. The Rivonia Trial, at the South African State Theatre which re-enacts the historical Rivonia Trial through the eyes of the ten cadres of Umkhonto We Sizwe who faced charges of Sabotage under the Apartheid government, can also be seen. The department assisted 43 craft enterprises in Mpumalanga to have market driven products for the month-long show piece as well as selling them to visitors. As a result, a Craft Village has been established at Nelspruit Fan Park and will operate for the duration of the tournament. The Nelson Mandela Museum in Mthatha and Luthuli Museum in Grouteville have both developed a flagship multi-media project that explores the legacy and social histories of two extraordinary leaders. They will collaborate to co-host multi-media presentations that allow museum visitors to track the work of the two great leaders. At the Newtown cultural precinct, there will be a variety of musical performances, DJ's and comedy to entertain the visitors. "The main objective of our initiatives is to enhance the visitor experience. We want our visitors not only to have fun, but also to learn about our country, for them to return to their respective countries with new knowledge to share with their family," she said.