Pretoria – The challenge of youth unemployment and poverty alleviation in South Africa can only be addressed if the country’s youngsters change their attitude and inculcate a culture of youth service, says National Youth Development Agency (NYDA) Chairperson Yeshen Pillay. “As young South Africans we should have the courage to think differently, act positively and challenge the status quo,” Pillay said at a New Age business briefing on Tuesday. The NYDA was established to coordinate youth development in the country following a merger between Umsobomvu Youth Fund and the National Youth Commission. Pillay called for the restructuring of the agency. He said the new board at NYDA, which was appointed in April, will focus on five key areas of development with education and skills development being at the centre of the strategy. “Across all these areas are a number of flagship programmes to be rolled out throughout the course of the year. These flagship projects will serve as tangible deliverables emanating from the new strategy that be comprised of current programmes,” said Pillay. It involved the training of young people to allow them to be employable and facilitating more opportunities for young entrepreneurs. The new Youth Employment Accord offered an opportunity for all partners to work together to improve the lives of South Africa’s youngsters, said Pillay. With 51 percent of South Africa’s youth said to be unemployed, the whole month of June has been declared Youth Month with various activities planned throughout the month to address challenges facing young people. Asked if it was acceptable for the NYDA to use 40 percent of its budget on salaries, Pillay conceded that this was problematic but said the agency had “a very well-skilled and enthusiastic” staff complement. “We have more than 300 very well trained technocrats who occupy our branches and are able to deliver the current products and services and I think that’s got to be acknowledged.” In response to criticism that the NYDA lacked contact with youth in rural areas, Pillay said: “In the month of May we have reached more than 78 000 young people mostly are predominantly in rural areas through our community outreach programme.”  – SAnews.gov.za