By Mandla Khoza Mbombela - More than R550 million has been set aside to build new hospitals and upgrade existing medical facilities in Mpumalanga. Provincial Health MEC Candith Mashego-Dlamini announced the amount when presenting her R8 billion 2013/2014 policy and budget speech in the provincial legislature in Mbombela on Thursday afternoon. “We have this year set aside R552 579 000.00 with the purpose of this programme being to build, upgrade, renovate, rehabilitate and maintain facilities," said Mashego-Dlamini. She said the province has 11 hospitals which are in different stages of construction in the Nkangala, Ehlanzeni and Gert Sibande districts. These include KwaMhlanga, Mmametlhake, HA Grove (Belfast), Witbank, Mapulaneng, Shongwe, Themba and Rob Ferreira Evander, Piet Retief and Ermelo hospitals. “This year... we will commence with the demolition and reconstruction of Bethal Hospital and Elsie Ballot Hospital...," she said. She added that Sesifuba TB Hospital in Ermelo, Sabie Hospital, Lydenburg Hospital, Barton TB Hospital, Mapulaneng Hospital and Standerton TB Hospital will receive major renovation in this financial year. The Departmental Turnaround Strategy for Health Infrastructure Delivery was developed and approved by the national Department of Health. This led to the development of the implementation plan and the establishment of a Provincial Joint Collaboration Committee to advise on infrastructure maintenance. Mashego-Dlamini also thanked private companies that have played a role in making sure that people have access to health services. “I would like to thank and appreciate the valuable donations made by Xstrata Coal (Pty) Ltd and Re-Action for two state of the art Community Health Centres which are Thubelihle CHC in Kriel and Ubuhle Bempilo CHC in Breyten. "I would also like to thank Broadreach for a Wellness Clinic in Standerton at Lekwa Municipality and a Pharmacy in Amsterdam at Mkhondo Municipality and Shanduka, who will build a facility at a level a of a community health centre at Kwazamokuhle in Hendrina at Steve Tshwete Municipality,” Mashego Dlamini said. – SAnews.gov.za